Application Code: AN application code is defined by ITU-T G.698.2 and defines interoperability. Two transceivers supporting the same application code and a line system matching the constraints of that application mode will interoperate.

Organizational Code: An organizational code is a non-standard code that enables interoperability between Transceivers of that type and associated network conditions. It is up to the defining Entity to define Organizational Codes in a manner that guarantees interoperability. Organizations can be MSA-Groups, Operators, System vendors, component vendors etc.

if-mode: An Interface-mode is a defined set of parameters that identifies a configuration validated by the system vendors. The if-mode is an identifier for an explicit set of parameters. each interface can support 1 or more if-modes and can be referenced by the relevant identifier. A single if-mode can support one or more Application code and one or more Organizational code.

active-if-mode: the active-if-mode is the if-mode an interface is operating. Such active-if-mode identifies an OTSi. the active-if-mode has a reference to one of the supported if-modes and additional parameters that can be varied such as e.g active frequency. if-modes specify interfaces only and do not define interoperability requirements. For interoperability guarantees, Application codes and Organizational codes are referenced.

interop-mode: interop-modes are used in to enable interoperability for path-computation. An interop-mode format may be as simple as a reference to an application code or Organizational code. For cases where no interop-mode exists or applications outside the scope of application-codes cannot be met, the interop-mode can also be encoded in an explicit mode. The explicit mode allows to encode any subset of parameters from the if-mode to enable a controller entity to check for interoperability by means outside of this draft. It shall be noted that using the explicit encoding does not guarantee interoperability between two transceivers even in case of identical parameter definitions. The explicit encoding of an inteerop-mode shall therefore be used with care.
